are you ready I am not ready but go
ahead you're not ready are you recording
it's been recorded yeah okay hi hey
there my name is Matt Jeff and EC I run
a website called Monty lab Co I'm an SEO
guy sure that's fine
I also have some university comm brew
cabin comm I sold another site
I love Brennan you're watching or
listening depending on where you are 100
days 100 days of SEO what's up what's
going on guys I'm Brennan Hufford I'm
I'm actually not yelling in this video
even though I'm normally super excitable
I'm yelling I just put my kids to bed
and they're like right upstairs right
above me in my office today we're gonna
be talking with Matt G of an AC and of
course we're gonna cover all of the core
things that we cover in every single
friend's Friday episode of 100 days of
SEO we're going to talk about Matt's
approach to SEO beginner mistakes that
Matt sees when it comes to SEO and even
some advanced ones because here's the
coolest thing about Matt and here's what
you're gonna learn in this video matt
has built six-figure websites he builds
these killer brands with amazing content
without any link building link building
is a big part of what I do for my own
stuff and for my SEO clients both like
the ones I consult with and as the SEO
director of click studios we do a lot of
link building and it doesn't do it at
all in fact I ended up being a bonus
interview in his SEO for bloggers course
cuz he didn't talk about link building
in there and he wanted to talk to
somebody who did it I'm just astounded
by his ability again and again and this
isn't just there's no excuses it's not
just like well he had someone fortunate
circumstance in a niche where he didn't
have to do link building no no no he
launched his site after site after study
is swim University roasty coffee which
he just sold and also brew cabin so like
he's building
this really cool kind of media company
around these different brands no
link-building
just the best possible content so if you
want to learn how to do SEO without link
building this this is the video for you
definitely watch to the end now the
video you're watching the podcast you're
listening to if you're listening to it
on itunes or stitcher or wherever you're
listening this is a pretty abbreviated
version he and i talked for like 45
minutes so if you want the full version
to go to 100 days of SEO calm slash and
join and you'll be able to get the full
length version there so without further
ado let's hear from Matt hey Matt thanks
for joining us for a hundred days of SEO
thanks for having me yeah absolutely
so I kind of want to jump into this tell
me a little bit about your approach to
SEO and it's obviously changed over the
years because swimm university is how
old the clinton years plus yeah which is
awesome so tell me like how maybe how
your approach has changed over time or
if it hasn't like what is your general
approach when it comes to SEO my general
approach to SEO is go big or go home
and I tend to and this is this goes for
a site that I'm just starting off like
like brute cabins only a couple years
old
roasty was only a couple years old when
I started that obviously like Swim
University is is bigger but I've always
gone after the biggest keyword I could
go after I you know I basically go
really big with a really hard difficult
you know super broad keyword and in the
pursuit of that I end up ranking for a
whole bunch of tiny longtail keywords
I don't strive to be a middle manager I
strive to be the boss and if I get to
middle management cool on top of that I
think it's really just about building a
user experience that is just super fast
easy to read and fun to read and very
in-depth but that doesn't necessarily
mean super long because I know a lot of
people right now are like dude
crush like 16,000 words on a page and
you're guaranteed a rank and I'm like no
you're guaranteed to be [__] boring
as hell so I rather it be I'd rather
take those 16 thousand words condense it
into a good five to six thousand words
and really just deliver as fast as
possible because honestly I think that
that's what Google is looking for and
that's sort of my general approach to
SEO it's just you know big ass keywords
fast easy to read fun to read not short
not super long but kind of like right as
long as it's gotta be right like as long
as it's gotta be correct yeah I really
like that and I know this sounds crazy
but the this is something you see a lot
with like YouTube SEO because it's so
democratic and because they own the
platform they have all the data and
watch time really matters the whole idea
of like yeah this is really informative
and it's a lot like length does not help
you on YouTube and I would argue it
doesn't help you in Google either like
people think like oh you rank for more
terms
not if it's awful like it's got it I
know this sounds silly but like how many
people doing SEO actually read their
article and go oh that's fun to read I
was enjoyable that and you know where I
think this comes from is like you
actually have something to say like you
have a take and I don't think people
include that as like an SEO strategy
like just having a voice and like being
you know yourself yeah I mean that's a
great point because once something I was
telling a friend of mine the other day I
was like you so some university has its
own philosophy to pool care it does and
there are keywords that we try to rank
for so as an example algaecide is a
chemical that you add to your pool that
is a algae preventative and a lot of
people might look at that keyword and go
well I'm gonna just do like the top 10
now decides to add or like how to add
I'll decide to a pool but assume
University has a unique take on it
because personally I mean I'm the one
who
has you know taught pool care for years
since I was 13
like I don't tell people to use out
decide I think it is sort of like an
erroneous chemical that you really don't
need as long as you do all these other
thing right so we started we created an
article called the truth about algaecide
and that ranks for I'll decide because
it's not just a you know what you're
looking for out decide here's the thing
no we're giving you a point of view and
that we don't do that all the time but
we certainly do it sometimes at maybe at
the sacrifice of actually ranking for
something but I think what that does is
it builds trust in the in the reader and
if one of those readers happens to own a
pool company which a lot of them do a
lot of them use swim University as a
source to train their employees they
will link to me which is a backlink that
I've kind of earned through respect and
Trust and that sort of helps push that
forward or it gets shared because it's
like well somebody actually said the
thing we were all thinking and not and
didn't just write something to rank you
know either that or I just won't write
it even if it's a good keyword and it
doesn't fit the philosophy of the site
I'm like you know what I'm not gonna go
after this keyword just to get traffic
because I just a lot of keywords I could
go after and I used to go after to get
traffic and and on some university and
it was like oh wait a minute
that actually doesn't fit our brand at
all and it's not actually selling our
products and people are not actually
clicking affiliate links so why the hell
did I go after it because I was a
traffic you know hound and I wanted it
all and it's just not not all traffic is
equal that's a really good point right
does it actually I was talking to Sam
from HR F's earlier today 400 days of
SEO and we were talking about like is
this actually I was like what's your
guiding principle with SEO he's like
does it map to our business it's a
business yes I was like ah that's a
really good point it's a good way to
explain yep
yeah I mean nobody wants to read another
generic article that starts out if you
have an article on email marketing like
I'd rather read an email marketing
article from you that like opening line
is like convertkit is the [__] here's
why like I want to read that verse
is email marketing is a tool used by
most marketers today have you ever
wondered how you like oh stop like just
that horrible content where you're like
this doesn't isn't there's gonna be no
opinions here there's no take and and
there's no style or anything to the
writing and so I I've you know being in
the industry that I'm in like I
sometimes need to read those convertkit
is an email marketing tool that everyone
you know that I started using four years
ago and guess what it's working and it's
like whatever
it's reconvert it is convert it good
right the only one I have and so I read
it and I'm just like eyes glaze over
whatever and I'm skimming and I
understand that people do that on my
site as well but we try to add fun to
like our head our h2 tags or h3 tags
so that when I do skim it's like whoa
they said that they said the S word or
that were they or well that's a funny
pun or whatever I mean if you think puns
are funny which I do we we just inject a
lot of personality into the brand and
that personality comes from me because I
started the brand and then we just sort
of carried that tradition forward which
we haven't done at brew cabin which we
will be injecting you know because we I
hired writers and we had to get some out
and it was like okay well this is
working then let's go back and inject
the personality money lab is one of
those sites that doesn't rely on SEO at
all and it's just all of my personality
yet somehow I have consistent traffic
without doing any SEO whatsoever like I
literally don't rank for anything so yep
yeah as well I mean I think the thing
with that is like yeah you have like the
email page and the thing the things that
are just like just purely could not you
cannot research those those are just
100% you and I think leveraging I think
that's a really good takeaway for
anybody watching or listening is like
you the more you can put you into
something and I understand if it's a
project that you can't really put
yourself into or you're doing client
work or whatever else like there's a
part of that too but like putting their
voice into it and helping them to find
their voice like you can provide a lot
more value to clients and even projects
that you know just like you said with
swimming university like it might not be
it's not like all-out like level 99
Matt but it is like sure you have a take
and we have a stance on things and you
put your flag in the ground and like
that matters tell me a little bit so you
have a course called SEO for bloggers
and you know if people want to check
that out I'll put the link in the
description and in the show notes as
well so SEO for bloggers I love it it's
an awesome course I have you're like
that's like it's good you're in it yeah
I'm the I'm the bonus I'm the bonus
interview where we get a little kursi
and we talk about link building for like
an hour
but yeah I mean obviously I don't and
you know yep yeah and it's not that's
one of those things but here's the thing
like I it's one of those things of like
finding your skill set right like I
don't I can I have I have a take I have
a very like definitive voice on things
which I know is coming across a lot in
this like hundred days of SEO project
but like I'm not the did my design
skills and like my ability to code in
things you are leaps and bounds past me
on that you're also really good at
content and I think that's where like
SEO for bloggers really stands out is
like if you want to learn how to like do
really good research and like put
together some really just like amazing
content I think that's a it's a
fantastic course for reasons beyond that
but I like that part of it so my
question was like this has exposed you
having a course especially something
that's SEO for bloggers I'm sure you get
a lot of people that sign up for the
course who are closer to the beginner
end of the spectrum and like what are
the common mistakes you see beginners
making when it comes to SEO
overdoing it on the words overdoing it
on writing too much which is like you
should not be a problem right used to be
you know you only wrote too little
you're like 300 words isn't gonna rank
and they're like fine twelve thousand
like well you know there's that there's
a middle ground not and again like you
said like it's enough to like get the
point across or whatever I think a lot
of people struggle with the actual
technology of
see oh I think one of my what I would
say like yes I may be good at content
although currently like I'm not really
writing any of the content on some
university or even brute cabin but I've
developed the voice and so it carries
forward that's just one piece of it
there's a lot of technical SEO stuff
that we know we can talk about h1 tags
h2 tags you know alt tags all these
different Meta Description things and
those are all really simple because you
add a plug-in or whatever you use and
you can just add those things and it's
and it's sort of like structuring you
know because a lot of what I talk about
in the course is like how to structure
like visually structure content that
people like Google Lex and I think the
biggest mistake is actually the the
website and technology of it because
it's hard it's hard to to start a
website and and it's all there's a lot
of technical stuff like you need to know
HTML and CSS and and how servers work
and if you're using WordPress you're on
PHP you know a lot of people will just
use Squarespace I've never seen anyone
do SEO well on Squarespace personally
I've never seen it done but I don't know
if that's because of a limitation of
their technology or because people just
don't use Squarespace for that reason
but what about Wix I don't know people
killing it with Wix I see that's the
thing I have no idea but I I know
they're not so I I you know this is so
hard to say because I know that it this
is this falls on deaf ears a lot of the
times but like if you learn HTML CSS and
some on a light amount of PHP using
WordPress or whatever you are a SEO
superpower like it is it is an absolute
superpower because I can look at a
website or I can even look at my own
website and go I want to make this site
load in once like in a millisecond you
click any
one of my posts it loads and I had to
learn that I mean even though I've been
doing code form for ten years I still
had to learn like some server stuff and
how how caching works and all of these
things and so now that I have like my
content is good it structured well now
the whole the you know holistic view of
the website and how its organized and
you know I keep things as crazy as
simple as possible whenever I you know
somebody is just getting started I'm
like download the lightest theme you can
find like with I don't even know how to
find something like that but something
super fast super light invest in a
really good hosting account because you
can invest in something like Bluehost
and they're not gonna help you or you
can invest in something like insta or WP
engine or psych ground or name your you
know I use flywheel it's simple I wheels
another one yeah who do you something
that's that's got built-in back-end
caching and CDN capabilities that are
gonna help your website load super fast
invest in good plugins like I use WP
rocket I use image of five for my images
I use cloud flare as my DNS which makes
things really really fast and if you go
to some university it's it loads quickly
one because of all those pieces of
technology and two because the design I
have taken the design over ten years and
literally just took out I'm like you
know what no more images no more you
know background images no fancy design
techniques it's like people just need to
read the content and everyone's doing it
on their phones like 75% of mic traffic
according to Google Analytics is is on a
mobile device so what are you looking at
you're looking at friggin text you know
some pictures here and there so the text
better load super fast they want to get
to the point click my affiliate links
buy my products whatever like everything
has to be crazy fast and I think
that is one of the reasons why I've been
able to take a brand new website like
brew cabinets a year old and get traffic
to it with zero backlinks and just doing
one article a week super slow and that's
what I did with roasty to one article
week but the website was lightning-fast
it was super simple it loaded well on
mobile devices and I was rewarded by
Google for that with I mean not to say
that I didn't have backlinks I did I
just earned them all natural this is
something I've heard echoed I
interviewed Nick Eubanks as well he's an
owner of this agency called from the
future one of the founders of traffic
think tank it's cool SEO slack group
that I'm a part of and he was saying -
he's like look like if you wanna have
the audacity to rank in Google and you
do not have a basic understanding of
even how the internet works as a thing
like you like servers and you just think
that like it should he's like take 30
minutes and like watch a couple videos
and just start to understand how the
things are happening on your computer
you see video where is that coming from
like how is this working and he said
like when you exactly what you said
really echoed that because it's like
when you understand like oh it's got to
go over here and get the thing and then
bring it back to you and like you start
to understand that was like probably a
horrible like way of explaining it but
like when you start to understand those
things you're like oh I know how to I
know how the engine works I can make it
go faster right right it's it's it's
literally optimization we're talking
about SEO s what stands for and it is
intimidating but like if you believe
that you desert like this is part of the
whole this whole like just general
feeling I have about things like if you
want to have the audacity to live a life
of independence and like doing your own
thing and having your own products and
services and whatever like it's worth
investing to base your whole life on the
internet like probably know how the
thing works that you're using it's just
like if you had like a call center and
you're like nobody here knows how phones
work and phone line like nobody can fix
these things when they break and like
anything like you do that sounds insane
but we've become very so accustomed to
the internet just being like oh it's
just it's in this it's in the little
here like it's in the little box in my
hand
all of a sudden you know go you have to
get a program like hrs which is my
favorite program I talk a lot about it
in the course same and yeah literally
right now are doing an HRC shirt yep
yeah I look it's the best one out there
for keyword research and is it's it's
it's not cheap I will say that and I
took me a long time to like pull the
trigger on it but best trigger pool ever
so kind of mad at myself that I didn't
and it's also seven dollars for seven
days if you want to try it right and so
that's what I would say this like do
that get a big list of like relevant
super relevant doesn't even matter what
the difficulty is but if you can get it
under like 25 or under 30 you're good
and and over a thousand searches a month
you make a big list and you just knock
them out just just publish doesn't have
to be fast you can do it once a week
obviously it's gonna make things slower
but just knock out really good in-depth
well-written well edited entertaining if
you can make it entertaining articles
and have a very fast website have a very
minimalist designed website with just
easy structure to find all your articles
like if you go on some university right
now you go to any one of my like
categories like swimming pool care at
the very top at my bar it is a list of
bullets it's pretty damn simple it's
been that way since day one it's a list
of its like it's like an unordered list
that's it and it's and people were like
why don't you add like design elements
I'm like cuz no one's complained like
it's so easy to find [__] on that page
because it's just it's it's under you
can understand it and so and to me it's
like super easy I love it
and if you can do that it just works
are there any advanced mistakes that you
see people making it's we kind of
covered like beginner mistakes are there
any like advanced or like other mistakes
you see people making or even you've
made yourself
despite like kind of having the beginner
stuff handled
I think the advanced mistake is
PageSpeed I have to I mean like cuz I
know a lot of people who are who do SEO
content and their websites are slow and
their web pages are slow getting real
self-conscious right now because I
haven't looked at what mine is for a
while so yeah yeah and I get you're like
oh the keyword and the topical research
and the search intent and you forget
that like oh this kind of did it did I
put a thing on it that made it go real
slow yeah I mean probably like there's
probably a bunch of erroneous plugins
that you have installed that are like
crushing your page speed and that don't
need to be there that don't add any
value to the user you know that is
something that I am constantly pruning
and making my website faster and the
read the biggest reason for page speed
in my opinion is like one we just want
[__] immediately right we all want stuff
instantly - yes the internet and our our
dial-up so whatever are getting faster
our phones are getting faster but
they're never gonna be like they it's
gonna be a very long time before it's
instant and even when it is instant the
pages that take one millisecond to load
are gonna be like oh my god it takes
forever and like your websites loading
in like 0.25 milliseconds wow the site's
fast like so I there's I think page
speeds always that and - or like
everyone's looking at websites on their
phones and on their tablets and they're
sometimes not on Wi-Fi and from in my
business specifically like again 75% of
people are on their mobile device
looking at some university because
they're a generally an older crowd so
they don't have
laptops they have iPads and they have
phones right and they're out by their
pool they might not have to be in the
other Wi-Fi they need to look [__] up
fast if it pops up immediately
and I win from that and Google's like
hell yeah this is great
I don't need amp right which is amp is
like Google's like instant pages
I don't need it cuz I my sites faster
than what is the same speed as an amp
article yeah you don't need it you don't
need amp to strip down your design
elements cuz there's nothing there's no
extraneous it down it still looks good
like don't get me wrong like there's
their subtlety in the design but yeah I
think that's the biggest I've looked at
people who are like ranking for stuff
and I'm like their website gets an F in
GT metrics and that's it like takes 17
seconds to load or seven how do you
whatever what is it if somebody we're
going to just say like alright I want to
go check my stuff right now what would
you recommend GT metrics dot-com and
it's G TM e t RI X belief mmm-hmm calm
don't look yet they're gonna give you a
score they're gonna be a couple scores
it'll be like a you know a grading
system look at the waterfall tab because
the waterfall tab will show you what
stuff on your website is being loaded
and there's gonna be some blocks and
it's probably a plugin and you can
deactivate that plug-in and just speed
things up caching is usually the biggest
thing like if you can cache your website
to load instantly I use CloudFlare I pay
for it you don't have to pay for it if
you don't have like a lot of if you're
just getting started it's free so highly
recommend that and what that what
CloudFlare does is take a picture of
your website and not a picture like a
picture of your code and they serve it
so if you're in where you read Chicago
yeah so like there's a probably a server
way closer to you than there is it to me
in Colorado and so it'll serve it from
the closest one to you because it's just
a it's just like a snapshot really and
so it just loads instantly which gets
back to like do you know how the
internet works right exactly back yeah
and it's a it's a DNS server so and it
has you know CDN built into it which is
a content delivery network which helps
you know just things to arrive at your
computer faster
even though they might be sitting on a
server in Austin Texas where WP engine
is or there or there sitting in Seattle
where AWS is you know Amazon but you
know we only really need the HTML code
and that's not really much to store and
so we just so CloudFlare sort of
dispenses that
yeah and makes it very quick yeah so
summarize what you're saying is like B
despite the fact that internet seems
like it should just be instantaneous
from anywhere it's actually being served
from physical locations and the closer
the physical location is to you the
faster it is like there is yeah there is
value just like if you sent me a letter
from Colorado it'll get here faster than
if somebody sent it to me from
California or something exactly you know
I don't know better now no it works
exactly like that and then there's
things you can do that's that's that's
like that's you know server-side and
then there's like or that's client-side
and then there's server-side things like
on your own site you can do like WP
rocket is a plugger than I started using
with WP engine and it caches locally and
it does it it lazy loads videos and it
lazy loads images and it does all this
like background [__] it helps cleaning
up your database like all these little
tiny micro optimization features that
are all just like one clicks that sort
of just clean up make things super super
super fast and just super lightweight
and then just having it you know in
compressing images I use their sister
company which is image if I to just
compress images on the fly and I pay for
that service and it's not much I think
it's like four dollars a month or
something and WP rocket I think it's
like 50 bucks for a single website for a
year so not expensive tools and
obviously CloudFlare is free and then
just like not adding a lot of plugins
you don't need a lot of like weird
design II [__] I don't have share
buttons anymore because people know how
to do that [__] now and also in my case
people are not sharing articles about
algae in their pool because then all her
friends know that their pools green come
check out my filthy cool and I just you
know I I did have all those things you
know and they just weren't being clicked
and in not a knowledge I became
Facebook or Twitter or any of that so I
was just like oh I could delete it and
didn't see any change in traffic at all
in fact that probably grew because my
site was slightly faster so you just
need to make those decisions do you
really need this yes or no no delete it
so those are the mistakes I see a lot of
like advanced SEO people make yeah
definitely well awesome Matt I really
appreciate your time thanks for coming
on hundred days of SEO totally good luck
with it man all right so I hope that was
really awesome I hope you enjoyed me
talking with Matt again if you want to
listen to or watch the full 45 minute
version go to 100 days of seo.com slash
join you also be able to get access to
the pillar content master class where we
dive in even more actually break down
Matt as one of the case studies in the
pillar content master class of how to
create pillar content that will rank in
Google and in this case without having
to do a lot of link building so if you
dig the video give it a thumbs up make
sure to subscribe on the podcasts or
here on YouTube I've been burnin up for
don't forget to work hard be nice
don't yell and wake up your kids be nice
to people and don't get to laws try to
create something that matters
[Music]